So pods, as we know, are the smallest deployable units in Kubernetes. If you want to run something on Kubernetes, you need to create a pod and place the application in it. Pods are ephemeral, which means they can be created and killed. To match the cluster state, you declare by deployments. We need our pods to find each other and communicate within the cluster so our application can work as expected.

Pods, however, have their own IPs, which is good, but IPs keep changing because pods are, well, ephemeral. How do I find my application's pieces in a cluster and help them communicate like, let's say, a front-end service talks to a back-end service while these IPs are changing all the time? This is possible by using cremated services. A backend service can be created to point to the backend pods so that any other application within the cluster can use the service to reach the applications in the backend.

The service has its own IP and so we no longer have to rely on the IPs of the individual pods. Services are an abstraction that determines which pods to connect to and the policy on how to connect them. Pods have labels on them so that our service can select them in a huge pool of other pods. There are three types of services in Kubernetes: node port, cluster IP, and load balancer. The default type of service is called Cluster IP.

This is an internal-only service that is created to enable communication between applications within the cluster. This type of service is only accessible within the cluster. If you would like to make an application accessible outside of the cluster, then you must create a service of type node port. This will make the service accessible on a predefined port on all the nodes in the cluster. The third type is called Load Balancer.

This type of service is only supported with specific cloud providers. This is like node port service, but invokes a supported external load balancer to create a load balancer to the ports, the application exposed on the nodes in the clusters. That's a quick recap of the services. Well, that's all for this lecture. We'll see you in the next one.